#Linux in Vehicles
by Alexander

##Define the Topic

Linux in vehicles is quite a new technology but will be integrated into several
manufacture vehicles in the coming years. Right now, Automotive Grade Linux
(AGL) is the leading innovator of bringing Linux into vehicles. Since AGL is
open source the development processes have been very rapid especially
considering the sluggish automotive market. AGL will debut on the 2018 Toyota
Camry.

Another notable example of Linux in Vehicles would have to be in Tesla. Tesla
uses a custom version of Ubuntu Linux. Tesla uses Linux to relay information to
the end-user by the flat-panel screen in every Tesla. The information relayed is
almost everything measurable in the vehicle, but the programs measuring the
information of the vehicle actually uses C, this is so if the Linux software
crashes the car won't go off the road as it’s a separate system. Although since
this Telsa’s version is not open source it is quite hard to research it, it is
important to know what the potential of AGL could be.

##Who is behind it?

Automotive Grade Linux is an open source project that has over 750 developers.
What AGL hopes to bring to vehicles is a uniformed service that can give the
end-user information about all of the cars they are in. AGL makes it easier for
vehicle manufacturers to have commonplace features like GPS, Bluetooth, Media
software into their vehicles for cheaper and a quicker development time. AGL
already has a list of onboard manufactures that include Toyota, Mazda, Honda,
Nissan, and Ford.

##What do they hope to achieve?

As described above AGL hopes to bring a cheap, simple way to implement
“infotainment” systems to vehicles. Right now their list of manufacturers that
have signed up will use AGL for 70-80% of their on-bored entertainment systems
with 20-30% of room to add their own custom options to it. Moving ahead AGL
plans to support a heads-up display, telematics/connected car, advanced driver
assistance systems, and autonomous driving.

##Where do they/it stand?

AGL wants to keep their code Open-sourced. AGL members have realized that
sharing a single, open-source software project, it allows for a more efficient
development process. This, in turn, creates a cheaper alternative for
manufacturers and allows them to only spend a fraction of the money to hire
independent software vendors to build the remaining 20-30% of the project
instead of the full 100%.

##How to use or play with the tech?

Since AGL is still in its infancy, it will be tough to get to play with the
tech for a few years. That being said, if you do own a 2018 Toyota Camry you
already have AGL installed in your vehicle. In the coming years, I am sure more
manufacturers will take on AGL as a cost-effective way to incorporate the latest
technology into their entertainment/information systems.

##Further Reading

1.  <https://www.automotivelinux.org/>

2.  <https://www.linux.com/blog/event/automotive-linux-summit/2017/6/linux-rolls-out-toyota-and-lexus-vehicles>

3.  <http://www.zdnet.com/article/theres-a-linux-powered-car-in-your-future/>

4.  <https://www.techworld.com.au/article/433612/tesla_cto_talks_model_batteries_in-car_linux/>

![/Users/AC/Downloads/agl-ivi.jpg](/pix/reports/27-1.jpg)
