#Investigative Report
by Kenneth

When you hear the word Linux, there will be many things that come to mind like Ubuntu, Fedora, Debian and CentOS. These are all Linux distributions. If they are all Linux what makes us, choose to use one over the other if they all are considered to be variants of Linux. While it is true that they are all similar but what makes them different is mostly in the software that they include or what package manager is being used. Another thing to consider is that there are some distributions that automatically resolves dependencies and some that don’t when installing packages. That’s important because for a beginner you might want to find a distro that resolves dependencies because if you are downloading software you will need those dependencies for it to fun properly. On the other hand, if you want to more in-depth customization on what needs to be install, then you might consider the other option. 

Linux was first started with the GNU project in 1983 by Richard Stallman. I was intended to develop a Unix-compatible operating system called GNU. Many of its components were contributed by developers all over the world. It was not until 1991 that the system was ready, however what was left was the kernel. That was when Linus Torvalds came in, where he uses Mimix, a Unix-like system and began writing his own kernel. It was then he combined the kernel he created which is called Linux was later combined with the GNU system to create a completely free operating system. The community started to expand as more and more volunteer developers continued to debug and develop and enhance the source code to this day. 

Linus Torvalds started the project as a hobby, as at the time he was a member of the Unix hacker community and had been waiting for the completion of the GNU project. By 1991 where the GNU had reached completion, Torvalds grew impatient and frustrated with the inability of GNU to deliver a functional kernel. Because Torvalds had a strong understanding of how the Unix functioned, he began to write his own UNIX OS kernel.

With Torvalds’s effort and his willingness to share his work and collaborate with other developers leading to the completion of the GNU Project it became a foundation to a lot of the technology we use today.  Most enterprise servers a run on OS based on a Linux kernel and all smartphones devices that run on Android use the Linux kernel as its base. 

To get started with Linux, head to a Linux distribution’s website and download the ISO image you’ll need, unlike Microsoft or Apple its entirely free. With the image file you can either burn it on a disc and run of that or create a bootable USB drive. Another alternative is that you can a virtual machine to create virtual environment to run Linux on. VMs are easy to manage, since once you are done with them you can easily delete them or backup a complete a copy. The most popular virtualization tool is called VirtualBox. VirtualBox comes with a very user-friendly step by step setup guide, you can setup a VM in a couple minutes. Once Linux is setup, depending on which distro you are using the desktop environment and installed apps with differ. However, being its Linux a lot of this can be changed on you own to your liking. Installing software onto Linux is different from the regular Microsoft or Apple OS. Instead of needing to open a web browser, the Linux distro comes with a software manager that allows you to browse and install software. Other open-source application that can be obtained on GitHub can be installed on your Linux machine through the terminal.
	