#Linux in Hospital Equipment
by Alexander

##Explain/define the topic.

As pressure for hospitals to lower costs increases, the need for Linux
also increases. This is because Linux based hardware is much cheaper to
use than Unix mainframes. Why is it cheaper? Well, Linux based systems
can utilize commodity servers, which can be cheaper to buy, while Unix
based mainframes are much more expensive. Also, because Linux is
open-sourced, it reduces licensing fees and increases security and
functionality.

##Who is behind it?

One corporation that is helping to drive the Linux demand in hospitals
is McKesson. 50 of McKesson’s 70 most popular health care applications
run on Linux. These applications help deal with everything from billing,
to pharmacy records, to staffing, to admissions, to physician order
entry systems and surgery scheduling.

Another company pushing for more Linux operating systems in hospitals is
Red Hat. They did this by partnering with McKesson and other companies
and providing a customized Red Hat Linux operating system that would fit
the needs of a medical professional.

There are many more companies like Novell and IBM that are helping push
Linux for medical professionals.

##What do they hope to achieve?

These companies are hoping that the medical industry starts to adopt
open-sourced software and that they convert their Unix mainframes to
cheaper Linux commodity servers. Also, these companies would like to see
the medical industry to start using Linux based desktops because it
would provide much more functionality than a Windows based desktop since
there are more tools, rapid service, and outstanding functionality on
Linux based systems. These companies have already seen a rapid growth in
the sales of Linux commodity servers in the medical industry; however,
this industry has not yet fully adopted desktop Linux.

##Where do/it stand?

The medical industry is currently trying to convert all its back-end
systems to Linux. This industry, however, has not fully adopted Linux
desktops yet because the industry believes that Linux is less secure
than Windows since it is open-sourced. Also, people in this industry
have the mentality of “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it”, so they do not
switch to Linux based systems since their current systems are not
experiencing any errors; however, because of the pressure of the medical
industry to cut costs, and the easy to manage learning curve for Linux,
as well as the rapid support you can get for Linux, the medical industry
is starting to consider this option.

##How to use or play with the tech?

To use this technology, you would have to have access to the server.
Once you have access to the server, you can do whatever would need to be
done. For example, if you were using a CT scanner running on Linux, you
could perform CT scans if you had access to the CT scanner. If you were
using a Linux based desktop in a hospital, you could access a variety of
things like a patience medical records.

##Reference Links

<https://www.computerworld.com/article/2538020/linux/hospital-software-vendor-mckesson-uses-linux-to-heal-it-budgets.html>

<https://www.linux.com/blog/linux-healthcare>

<https://dreaswar.com/2012/08/16/my-hospital-runs-linux-or-how-we-closed-the-windows-opened-the-doors/>

<http://allscrubbedup.blogspot.ca/2006/12/using-ubuntu-linux-to-solve-south.html>
